---
layout: default
title: "Aladdin and the Magic Lamp"
parent: PG Books
has_children: false
---


<style>
.image-gallery {
  display: flex;
  flex-wrap: wrap;
  justify-content: space-between;
  margin-bottom: 20px;
}

.image-row {
  display: flex;
  justify-content: flex-start;
  width: 100%;
  margin-bottom: 20px;
}

.image-item {
  width: 23%;
  margin-right: 2%;
  text-align: center;
}

.image-item:last-child {
  margin-right: 0;
}

.image-item img {
  width: 100%;
  height: auto;
  object-fit: cover;
  border-radius: 5px;
  box-shadow: 0 2px 4px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);
}

.image-item p {
  margin-top: 5px;
  font-size: 0.9em;
  color: #555;
}

.video-container {
  margin: 20px 0;
}

.book-content {
  max-height: 500px;
  overflow-y: auto;
  padding: 15px;
  border: 1px solid #ddd;
  border-radius: 5px;
  background-color: #f9f9f9;
  font-family: monospace;
  white-space: pre-wrap;
  margin-top: 20px;
}
</style>


# Aladdin and the Magic Lamp

<h3>Characters</h3>
<div class="image-gallery">
<div class="image-row">
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/Aladdin and the Magic Lamp/characters/000_MagicianPrompt.0.png" alt="000_MagicianPrompt.0">
    <p>000_MagicianPrompt.0</p>
  </div>
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/Aladdin and the Magic Lamp/characters/001_MotherPrompt.0.png" alt="001_MotherPrompt.0">
    <p>001_MotherPrompt.0</p>
  </div>
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/Aladdin and the Magic Lamp/characters/002_SultanPrompt.0.png" alt="002_SultanPrompt.0">
    <p>002_SultanPrompt.0</p>
  </div>
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/Aladdin and the Magic Lamp/characters/003_VizierPrompt.0.png" alt="003_VizierPrompt.0">
    <p>003_VizierPrompt.0</p>
  </div>
</div>
</div>

<h3>Chapters</h3>
<div class="image-gallery">
<div class="image-row">
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/Aladdin and the Magic Lamp/chapters/000_Chapter1.0.png" alt="000_Chapter1.0">
    <p>000_Chapter1.0</p>
  </div>
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/Aladdin and the Magic Lamp/chapters/001_Chapter2.0.png" alt="001_Chapter2.0">
    <p>001_Chapter2.0</p>
  </div>
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/Aladdin and the Magic Lamp/chapters/002_Chapter3.0.png" alt="002_Chapter3.0">
    <p>002_Chapter3.0</p>
  </div>
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/Aladdin and the Magic Lamp/chapters/004_Chapter5.0.png" alt="004_Chapter5.0">
    <p>004_Chapter5.0</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div class="image-row">
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/Aladdin and the Magic Lamp/chapters/005_Chapter6.0.png" alt="005_Chapter6.0">
    <p>005_Chapter6.0</p>
  </div>
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/Aladdin and the Magic Lamp/chapters/007_Chapter8.0.png" alt="007_Chapter8.0">
    <p>007_Chapter8.0</p>
  </div>
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/Aladdin and the Magic Lamp/chapters/008_Chapter9.0.png" alt="008_Chapter9.0">
    <p>008_Chapter9.0</p>
  </div>
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/Aladdin and the Magic Lamp/chapters/009_Chapter10.0.png" alt="009_Chapter10.0">
    <p>009_Chapter10.0</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div class="image-row">
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/Aladdin and the Magic Lamp/chapters/010_Chapter11.0.png" alt="010_Chapter11.0">
    <p>010_Chapter11.0</p>
  </div>
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/Aladdin and the Magic Lamp/chapters/011_Chapter12.0.png" alt="011_Chapter12.0">
    <p>011_Chapter12.0</p>
  </div>
</div>
</div>

<h2>Book Video</h2>
<div class="video-container">
  <video controls width="100%">
    <source src="../videos/Aladdin and the Magic Lamp.mp4" type="video/mp4">
    Your browser does not support the video tag.
  </video>
</div>


## Book Content

<div class="book-content">
﻿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Aladdin and the Magic Lamp

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Aladdin and the Magic Lamp

Author: Unknown

Release Date: March, 1993 [eBook #57]
[Most recently updated: May 5, 2022]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Kristin Schultz

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ALADDIN AND THE MAGIC LAMP ***




Aladdin and the Magic Lamp




There once lived a poor tailor, who had a son called Aladdin, a
careless, idle boy who would do nothing but play all day long in the
streets with little idle boys like himself. This so grieved the father
that he died; yet, in spite of his mother’s tears and prayers, Aladdin
did not mend his ways. One day, when he was playing in the streets as
usual, a stranger asked him his age, and if he was not the son of
Mustapha the tailor. “I am, sir,” replied Aladdin; “but he died a long
while ago.” On this the stranger, who was a famous African magician,
fell on his neck and kissed him saying: “I am your uncle, and knew you
from your likeness to my brother. Go to your mother and tell her I am
coming.” Aladdin ran home and told his mother of his newly found uncle.
“Indeed, child,” she said, “your father had a brother, but I always
thought he was dead.” However, she prepared supper, and bade Aladdin
seek his uncle, who came laden with wine and fruit. He fell down and
kissed the place where Mustapha used to sit, bidding Aladdin’s mother
not to be surprised at not having seen him before, as he had been forty
years out of the country. He then turned to Aladdin, and asked him his
trade, at which the boy hung his head, while his mother burst into
tears. On learning that Aladdin was idle and would learn no trade, he
offered to take a shop for him and stock it with merchandise. Next day
he bought Aladdin a fine suit of clothes and took him all over the
city, showing him the sights, and brought him home at nightfall to his
mother, who was overjoyed to see her son so fine.

Next day the magician led Aladdin into some beautiful gardens a long
way outside the city gates. They sat down by a fountain and the
magician pulled a cake from his girdle, which he divided between them.
Then they journeyed onwards till they almost reached the mountains.
Aladdin was so tired that he begged to go back, but the magician
beguiled him with pleasant stories and lead him on in spite of himself.
At last they came to two mountains divided by a narrow valley. “We will
go no farther,” said his uncle. “I will show you something wonderful;
only do you gather up sticks while I kindle a fire.” When it was lit
the magician threw on it a powder he had about him, at the same time
saying some magical words. The earth trembled a little in front of
them, disclosing a square flat stone with a brass ring in the middle to
raise it by. Aladdin tried to run away, but the magician caught him and
gave him a blow that knocked him down. “What have I done, uncle?” he
said piteously; whereupon the magician said more kindly: “Fear nothing,
but obey me. Beneath this stone lies a treasure which is to be yours,
and no one else may touch it, so you must do exactly as I tell you.” At
the word treasure Aladdin forgot his fears, and grasped the ring as he
was told, saying the names of his father and grandfather. The stone
came up quite easily, and some steps appeared. “Go down,” said the
magician; “at the foot of those steps you will find an open door
leading into three large halls. Tuck up your gown and go through them
without touching anything, or you will die instantly. These halls lead
into a garden of fine fruit trees. Walk on till you come to niche in a
terrace where stands a lighted lamp. Pour out the oil it contains, and
bring it me.” He drew a ring from his finger and gave it to Aladdin,
bidding him prosper.

Aladdin found everything as the magician had said, gathered some fruit
off the trees, and, having got the lamp, arrived at the mouth of the
cave. The magician cried out in a great hurry: “Make haste and give me
the lamp.” This Aladdin refused to do until he was out of the cave. The
magician flew into a terrible passion, and throwing some more powder on
to the fire, he said something, and the stone rolled back into its
place.

The man left the country, which plainly showed that he was no uncle of
Aladdin’s but a cunning magician, who had read in his magic books of a
wonderful lamp, which would make him the most powerful man in the
world. Though he alone knew where to find it, he could only receive it
from the hand of another. He had picked out the foolish Aladdin for
this purpose, intending to get the lamp and kill him afterwards.

For two days Aladdin remained in the dark, crying and lamenting. At
last he clasped his hands in prayer, and in so doing rubbed the ring,
which the magician had forgotten to take from him. Immediately an
enormous and frightful genie rose out of the earth, saying: “What
wouldst thou with me? I am the Slave of the Ring, and will obey thee in
all things.” Aladdin fearlessly replied, “Deliver me from this place!”
whereupon the earth opened, and he found himself outside. As soon as
his eyes could bear the light he went home, but fainted on the
threshold. When he came to himself he told his mother what had passed,
and showed her the lamp and the fruits he had gathered in the garden,
which were in reality precious stones. He then asked for some food.
“Alas! child,” she said, “I have nothing in the house, but I have spun
a little cotton and will go sell it.” Aladdin bade her keep her cotton,
for he would sell the lamp instead. As it was very dirty, she began to
rub it, that it might fetch a higher price. Instantly a hideous genie
appeared, and asked what she would have. She fainted away, but Aladdin,
snatching the lamp, said boldly: “Fetch me something to eat!” The genie
returned with a silver bowl, twelve silver plates containing rich
meats, two silver cups, and two bottles of wine. Aladdin’s mother, when
she came to herself, said: “Whence comes this splendid feast?” “Ask
not, but eat,” replied Aladdin. So they sat at breakfast till it was
dinner-time, and Aladdin told his mother about the lamp. She begged him
to sell it, and have nothing to do with devils. “No,” said Aladdin,
“since chance hath made us aware of its virtues, we will use it, and
the ring likewise, which I shall always wear on my finger.” When they
had eaten all the genie had brought, Aladdin sold one of the silver
plates, and so on until none were left. He then had recourse to the
genie, who gave him another set of plates, and thus they lived many
years.

One day Aladdin heard an order from the Sultan proclaimed that everyone
was to stay at home and close his shutters while the Princess his
daughter went to and from the bath. Aladdin was seized by a desire to
see her face, which was very difficult, as she always went veiled. He
hid himself behind the door of the bath, and peeped through a chink.
The Princess lifted her veil as she went in, and looked so beautiful
that Aladdin fell in love with her at first sight. He went home so
changed that his mother was frightened. He told her he loved the
Princess so deeply he could not live without her, and meant to ask her
in marriage of her father. His mother, on hearing this, burst out
laughing, but Aladdin at last prevailed upon her to go before the
Sultan and carry his request. She fetched a napkin and laid in it the
magic fruits from the enchanted garden, which sparkled and shone like
the most beautiful jewels. She took these with her to please the
Sultan, and set out, trusting in the lamp. The Grand Vizier and the
lords of council had just gone in as she entered the hall and placed
herself in front of the Sultan. He, however, took no notice of her. She
went every day for a week, and stood in the same place. When the
council broke up on the sixth day the Sultan said to his Vizier: “I see
a certain woman in the audience-chamber every day carrying something in
a napkin. Call her next time, that I may find out what she wants.” Next
day, at a sign from the vizier, she went up to the foot of the throne
and remained kneeling until the Sultan said to her: “Rise, good woman,
and tell me what you want.” She hesitated, so the Sultan sent away all
but the Vizier, and bade her speak freely, promising to forgive her
beforehand for anything she might say. She then told him of her son’s
violent love for the Princess. “I prayed him to forget her,” she said,
“but in vain; he threatened to do some desperate deed if I refused to
go and ask your Majesty for the hand of the Princess. Now I pray you to
forgive not me alone, but my son Aladdin.” The Sultan asked her kindly
what she had in the napkin, whereupon she unfolded the jewels and
presented them. He was thunderstruck, and turning to the vizier, said:
“What sayest thou? Ought I not to bestow the Princess on one who values
her at such a price?” The Vizier, who wanted her for his own son,
begged the Sultan to withhold her for three months, in the course of
which he hoped his son could contrive to make him a richer present. The
Sultan granted this, and told Aladdin’s mother that, though he
consented to the marriage, she must not appear before him again for
three months.

Aladdin waited patiently for nearly three months, but after two had
elapsed, his mother, going into the city to buy oil, found everyone
rejoicing, and asked what was going on. “Do you not know,” was the
answer, “that the son of the Grand Vizier is to marry the Sultan’s
daughter tonight?” Breathless she ran and told Aladdin, who was
overwh...

[Content truncated for display]
</div>
