---
layout: default
title: "Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an American Slave"
parent: PG Books
has_children: false
---


<style>
.image-gallery {
  display: flex;
  flex-wrap: wrap;
  justify-content: space-between;
  margin-bottom: 20px;
}

.image-row {
  display: flex;
  justify-content: flex-start;
  width: 100%;
  margin-bottom: 20px;
}

.image-item {
  width: 23%;
  margin-right: 2%;
  text-align: center;
}

.image-item:last-child {
  margin-right: 0;
}

.image-item img {
  width: 100%;
  height: auto;
  object-fit: cover;
  border-radius: 5px;
  box-shadow: 0 2px 4px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);
}

.image-item p {
  margin-top: 5px;
  font-size: 0.9em;
  color: #555;
}

.video-container {
  margin: 20px 0;
}

.book-content {
  max-height: 500px;
  overflow-y: auto;
  padding: 15px;
  border: 1px solid #ddd;
  border-radius: 5px;
  background-color: #f9f9f9;
  font-family: monospace;
  white-space: pre-wrap;
  margin-top: 20px;
}
</style>


# Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an American Slave

<h3>Characters</h3>
<div class="image-gallery">
<div class="image-row">
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an American Slave/characters/000_Captain Anthony.0.png" alt="000_Captain Anthony.0">
    <p>000_Captain Anthony.0</p>
  </div>
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an American Slave/characters/002_Sophia Auld.0.png" alt="002_Sophia Auld.0">
    <p>002_Sophia Auld.0</p>
  </div>
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an American Slave/characters/003_Master Hugh Auld.0.png" alt="003_Master Hugh Auld.0">
    <p>003_Master Hugh Auld.0</p>
  </div>
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an American Slave/characters/004_Master Thomas Auld.0.png" alt="004_Master Thomas Auld.0">
    <p>004_Master Thomas Auld.0</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div class="image-row">
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an American Slave/characters/006_William Freeland.0.png" alt="006_William Freeland.0">
    <p>006_William Freeland.0</p>
  </div>
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an American Slave/characters/007_Sandy Jenkins.0.png" alt="007_Sandy Jenkins.0">
    <p>007_Sandy Jenkins.0</p>
  </div>
</div>
</div>

<h3>Chapters</h3>
<div class="image-gallery">
<div class="image-row">
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an American Slave/chapters/001_Chapter II.0.png" alt="001_Chapter II.0">
    <p>001_Chapter II.0</p>
  </div>
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an American Slave/chapters/002_Chapter III.0.png" alt="002_Chapter III.0">
    <p>002_Chapter III.0</p>
  </div>
</div>
</div>

<h2>Book Video</h2>
<div class="video-container">
  <video controls width="100%">
    <source src="../videos/Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an American Slave.mp4" type="video/mp4">
    Your browser does not support the video tag.
  </video>
</div>


## Book Content

<div class="book-content">
﻿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, by Frederick Douglass

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass
       An American Slave

Author: Frederick Douglass

Release Date: January 1992 [eBook #23]
[Most recently updated: February 28, 2021]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: An Anonymous Volunteer and David Widger

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK NARRATIVE OF THE LIFE OF FREDERICK DOUGLASS  ***




Narrative
of the
Life
of
FREDERICK DOUGLASS

AN
AMERICAN SLAVE.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.

BOSTON

 PUBLISHED AT THE ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE,
 NO. 25 CORNHILL
 1845

ENTERED, ACCORDING TO ACT OF CONGRESS,
 IN THE YEAR 1845
 BY FREDERICK DOUGLASS,
 IN THE CLERK’S OFFICE OF THE DISTRICT COURT
OF MASSACHUSETTS.

Note from the original file: This electronic book is being released at
this time to honor the birthday of Martin Luther King Jr. [Born January
15, 1929] [Officially celebrated January 20, 1992]


Contents

  PREFACE 
  LETTER FROM WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ. 
  FREDERICK DOUGLASS. 
  CHAPTER I 
  CHAPTER II 
  CHAPTER III 
  CHAPTER IV 
  CHAPTER V 
  CHAPTER VI 
  CHAPTER VII 
  CHAPTER VIII 
  CHAPTER IX 
  CHAPTER X 
  CHAPTER XI 
  APPENDIX 
  A PARODY 




 PREFACE


In the month of August, 1841, I attended an anti-slavery convention in
Nantucket, at which it was my happiness to become acquainted with
_Frederick Douglass_, the writer of the following Narrative. He was a
stranger to nearly every member of that body; but, having recently made
his escape from the southern prison-house of bondage, and feeling his
curiosity excited to ascertain the principles and measures of the
abolitionists,—of whom he had heard a somewhat vague description while
he was a slave,—he was induced to give his attendance, on the occasion
alluded to, though at that time a resident in New Bedford.

Fortunate, most fortunate occurrence!—fortunate for the millions of his
manacled brethren, yet panting for deliverance from their awful
thraldom!—fortunate for the cause of negro emancipation, and of
universal liberty!—fortunate for the land of his birth, which he has
already done so much to save and bless!—fortunate for a large circle of
friends and acquaintances, whose sympathy and affection he has strongly
secured by the many sufferings he has endured, by his virtuous traits
of character, by his ever-abiding remembrance of those who are in
bonds, as being bound with them!—fortunate for the multitudes, in
various parts of our republic, whose minds he has enlightened on the
subject of slavery, and who have been melted to tears by his pathos, or
roused to virtuous indignation by his stirring eloquence against the
enslavers of men!—fortunate for himself, as it at once brought him into
the field of public usefulness, “gave the world assurance of a MAN,”
quickened the slumbering energies of his soul, and consecrated him to
the great work of breaking the rod of the oppressor, and letting the
oppressed go free!

I shall never forget his first speech at the convention—the
extraordinary emotion it excited in my own mind—the powerful impression
it created upon a crowded auditory, completely taken by surprise—the
applause which followed from the beginning to the end of his felicitous
remarks. I think I never hated slavery so intensely as at that moment;
certainly, my perception of the enormous outrage which is inflicted by
it, on the godlike nature of its victims, was rendered far more clear
than ever. There stood one, in physical proportion and stature
commanding and exact—in intellect richly endowed—in natural eloquence a
prodigy—in soul manifestly “created but a little lower than the
angels”—yet a slave, ay, a fugitive slave,—trembling for his safety,
hardly daring to believe that on the American soil, a single white
person could be found who would befriend him at all hazards, for the
love of God and humanity! Capable of high attainments as an
intellectual and moral being—needing nothing but a comparatively small
amount of cultivation to make him an ornament to society and a blessing
to his race—by the law of the land, by the voice of the people, by the
terms of the slave code, he was only a piece of property, a beast of
burden, a chattel personal, nevertheless!

A beloved friend from New Bedford prevailed on Mr. DOUGLASS  to address
the convention. He came forward to the platform with a hesitancy and
embarrassment, necessarily the attendants of a sensitive mind in such a
novel position. After apologizing for his ignorance, and reminding the
audience that slavery was a poor school for the human intellect and
heart, he proceeded to narrate some of the facts in his own history as
a slave, and in the course of his speech gave utterance to many noble
thoughts and thrilling reflections. As soon as he had taken his seat,
filled with hope and admiration, I rose, and declared that PATRICK
HENRY, of revolutionary fame, never made a speech more eloquent in the
cause of liberty, than the one we had just listened to from the lips of
that hunted fugitive. So I believed at that time—such is my belief now.
I reminded the audience of the peril which surrounded this
self-emancipated young man at the North,—even in Massachusetts, on the
soil of the Pilgrim Fathers, among the descendants of revolutionary
sires; and I appealed to them, whether they would ever allow him to be
carried back into slavery,—law or no law, constitution or no
constitution. The response was unanimous and in thunder-tones—“NO!”
“Will you succor and protect him as a brother-man—a resident of the old
Bay State?” “YES!” shouted the whole mass, with an energy so startling,
that the ruthless tyrants south of Mason and Dixon’s line might almost
have heard the mighty burst of feeling, and recognized it as the pledge
of an invincible determination, on the part of those who gave it, never
to betray him that wanders, but to hide the outcast, and firmly to
abide the consequences.

It was at once deeply impressed upon my mind, that, if Mr. DOUGLASS
could be persuaded to consecrate his time and talents to the promotion
of the anti-slavery enterprise, a powerful impetus would be given to
it, and a stunning blow at the same time inflicted on northern
prejudice against a colored complexion. I therefore endeavored to
instil hope and courage into his mind, in order that he might dare to
engage in a vocation so anomalous and responsible for a person in his
situation; and I was seconded in this effort by warm-hearted friends,
especially by the late General Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery
Society, Mr. JOHN A. COLLINS, whose judgment in this instance entirely
coincided with my own. At first, he could give no encouragement; with
unfeigned diffidence, he expressed his conviction that he was not
adequate to the performance of so great a task; the path marked out was
wholly an untrodden one; he was sincerely apprehensive that he should
do more harm than good. After much deliberation, however, he consented
to make a trial; and ever since that period, he has acted as a
lecturing agent, under the auspices either of the American or the
Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society. In labors he has been most
abundant; and his success in combating prejudice, in gaining
proselytes, in agitating the public mind, has far surpassed the most
sanguine expectations that were raised at the commencement of his
brilliant career. He has borne himself with gentleness and meekness,
yet with true manliness of character. As a public speaker, he excels in
pathos, wit, comparison, imitation, strength of reasoning, and fluency
of language. There is in him that union of head and heart, which is
indispensable to an enlightenment of the heads and a winning of the
hearts of others. May his strength continue to be equal to his day! May
he continue to “grow in grace, and in the knowledge of God,” that he
may be increasingly serviceable in the cause of bleeding humanity,
whether at home or abroad!

It is certainly a very remarkable fact, that one of the most efficient
advocates of the slave population, now before the public, is a fugitive
slave, in the person of _Frederick Douglass_; and that the free colored
population of the United States are as ably represented by one of their
own number, in the person of _Charles Lenox Remond_, whose eloquent
appeals have extorted the highest applause of multitudes on both sides
of the Atlantic. Let the calumniators of the colored race despise
themselves for their baseness and illiberality of spirit, and
henceforth cease to talk of the natural inferiority of those who
require nothing but time and opportunity to attain to the highest point
of human excellence.

It may, perhaps, be fairly questioned, whether any other portion of the
population of the earth could have endured the privations, sufferings
and horrors of slavery, without having become more degraded in the
scale of humanity than the slaves of African descent. Nothing has been
left undone to cripple their intellects, darken their minds, debase
their moral nature, obliterate all traces of their relationship to
mankind; and yet how wonderfully they have sustained the mighty load of
a most frightful bondage, under which they have been groaning for
centuries! To illustrate the effect of slavery on the white man,—to
show that he has no powers of endurance, in such a condition, superior
to those of his black brother,—_Daniel O’Connell_, the distinguished
advocate of universal emancipation, and the mightiest champion of
prostrate but not conquered Ireland,...

[Content truncated for display]
</div>
