---
layout: default
title: "The Communist Manifesto"
parent: PG Books
has_children: false
---


<style>
.image-gallery {
  display: flex;
  flex-wrap: wrap;
  justify-content: space-between;
  margin-bottom: 20px;
}

.image-row {
  display: flex;
  justify-content: flex-start;
  width: 100%;
  margin-bottom: 20px;
}

.image-item {
  width: 23%;
  margin-right: 2%;
  text-align: center;
}

.image-item:last-child {
  margin-right: 0;
}

.image-item img {
  width: 100%;
  height: auto;
  object-fit: cover;
  border-radius: 5px;
  box-shadow: 0 2px 4px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);
}

.image-item p {
  margin-top: 5px;
  font-size: 0.9em;
  color: #555;
}

.video-container {
  margin: 20px 0;
}

.book-content {
  max-height: 500px;
  overflow-y: auto;
  padding: 15px;
  border: 1px solid #ddd;
  border-radius: 5px;
  background-color: #f9f9f9;
  font-family: monospace;
  white-space: pre-wrap;
  margin-top: 20px;
}
</style>


# The Communist Manifesto

<h3>Characters</h3>
<div class="image-gallery">
<div class="image-row">
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/The Communist Manifesto/characters/001_FriedrichEngelsPrompt.0.png" alt="001_FriedrichEngelsPrompt.0">
    <p>001_FriedrichEngelsPrompt.0</p>
  </div>
</div>
</div>

<h3>Chapters</h3>
<div class="image-gallery">
<div class="image-row">
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/The Communist Manifesto/chapters/002_Chapter3Prompt.0.png" alt="002_Chapter3Prompt.0">
    <p>002_Chapter3Prompt.0</p>
  </div>
  <div class="image-item">
    <img src="../results/The Communist Manifesto/chapters/003_Chapter4Prompt.0.png" alt="003_Chapter4Prompt.0">
    <p>003_Chapter4Prompt.0</p>
  </div>
</div>
</div>

<h2>Book Video</h2>
<div class="video-container">
  <video controls width="100%">
    <source src="../videos/The Communist Manifesto.mp4" type="video/mp4">
    Your browser does not support the video tag.
  </video>
</div>


## Book Content

<div class="book-content">
﻿The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Communist Manifesto by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Communist Manifesto

Author: Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels

Release Date: April, 1993 [eBook #61]
[Most recently updated: March 2, 2022]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Allen Lutins and Jim Tarzia

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE COMMUNIST MANIFESTO ***




The Communist Manifesto

by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels


[From the English edition of 1888, edited by Friedrich Engels]




Contents

 I. BOURGEOIS AND PROLETARIANS
 II. PROLETARIANS AND COMMUNISTS
 III. SOCIALIST AND COMMUNIST LITERATURE
 IV. POSITION OF THE COMMUNISTS IN RELATION TO THE VARIOUS EXISTING OPPOSITION PARTIES




A spectre is haunting Europe—the spectre of Communism. All the Powers
of old Europe have entered into a holy alliance to exorcise this
spectre: Pope and Czar, Metternich and Guizot, French Radicals and
German police-spies.

Where is the party in opposition that has not been decried as
Communistic by its opponents in power? Where is the Opposition that has
not hurled back the branding reproach of Communism, against the more
advanced opposition parties, as well as against its reactionary
adversaries?

Two things result from this fact.

I. Communism is already acknowledged by all European Powers to be
itself a Power.

II. It is high time that Communists should openly, in the face of the
whole world, publish their views, their aims, their tendencies, and
meet this nursery tale of the Spectre of Communism with a Manifesto of
the party itself.

To this end, Communists of various nationalities have assembled in
London, and sketched the following Manifesto, to be published in the
English, French, German, Italian, Flemish and Danish languages.




I.
BOURGEOIS AND PROLETARIANS


The history of all hitherto existing societies is the history of class
struggles.

Freeman and slave, patrician and plebeian, lord and serf, guild-master
and journeyman, in a word, oppressor and oppressed, stood in constant
opposition to one another, carried on an uninterrupted, now hidden, now
open fight, a fight that each time ended, either in a revolutionary
re-constitution of society at large, or in the common ruin of the
contending classes.

In the earlier epochs of history, we find almost everywhere a
complicated arrangement of society into various orders, a manifold
gradation of social rank. In ancient Rome we have patricians, knights,
plebeians, slaves; in the Middle Ages, feudal lords, vassals,
guild-masters, journeymen, apprentices, serfs; in almost all of these
classes, again, subordinate gradations.

The modern bourgeois society that has sprouted from the ruins of feudal
society has not done away with class antagonisms. It has but
established new classes, new conditions of oppression, new forms of
struggle in place of the old ones. Our epoch, the epoch of the
bourgeoisie, possesses, however, this distinctive feature: it has
simplified the class antagonisms. Society as a whole is more and more
splitting up into two great hostile camps, into two great classes,
directly facing each other: Bourgeoisie and Proletariat.

From the serfs of the Middle Ages sprang the chartered burghers of the
earliest towns. From these burgesses the first elements of the
bourgeoisie were developed.

The discovery of America, the rounding of the Cape, opened up fresh
ground for the rising bourgeoisie. The East-Indian and Chinese markets,
the colonisation of America, trade with the colonies, the increase in
the means of exchange and in commodities generally, gave to commerce,
to navigation, to industry, an impulse never before known, and thereby,
to the revolutionary element in the tottering feudal society, a rapid
development.

The feudal system of industry, under which industrial production was
monopolised by closed guilds, now no longer sufficed for the growing
wants of the new markets. The manufacturing system took its place. The
guild-masters were pushed on one side by the manufacturing middle
class; division of labour between the different corporate guilds
vanished in the face of division of labour in each single workshop.

Meantime the markets kept ever growing, the demand ever rising. Even
manufacture no longer sufficed. Thereupon, steam and machinery
revolutionised industrial production. The place of manufacture was
taken by the giant, Modern Industry, the place of the industrial middle
class, by industrial millionaires, the leaders of whole industrial
armies, the modern bourgeois.

Modern industry has established the world-market, for which the
discovery of America paved the way. This market has given an immense
development to commerce, to navigation, to communication by land. This
development has, in its time, reacted on the extension of industry; and
in proportion as industry, commerce, navigation, railways extended, in
the same proportion the bourgeoisie developed, increased its capital,
and pushed into the background every class handed down from the Middle
Ages.

We see, therefore, how the modern bourgeoisie is itself the product of
a long course of development, of a series of revolutions in the modes
of production and of exchange.

Each step in the development of the bourgeoisie was accompanied by a
corresponding political advance of that class. An oppressed class under
the sway of the feudal nobility, an armed and self-governing
association in the mediaeval commune; here independent urban republic
(as in Italy and Germany), there taxable “third estate” of the monarchy
(as in France), afterwards, in the period of manufacture proper,
serving either the semi-feudal or the absolute monarchy as a
counterpoise against the nobility, and, in fact, corner-stone of the
great monarchies in general, the bourgeoisie has at last, since the
establishment of Modern Industry and of the world-market, conquered for
itself, in the modern representative State, exclusive political sway.
The executive of the modern State is but a committee for managing the
common affairs of the whole bourgeoisie.

The bourgeoisie, historically, has played a most revolutionary part.

The bourgeoisie, wherever it has got the upper hand, has put an end to
all feudal, patriarchal, idyllic relations. It has pitilessly torn
asunder the motley feudal ties that bound man to his “natural
superiors,” and has left remaining no other nexus between man and man
than naked self-interest, than callous “cash payment.” It has drowned
the most heavenly ecstasies of religious fervour, of chivalrous
enthusiasm, of philistine sentimentalism, in the icy water of
egotistical calculation. It has resolved personal worth into exchange
value, and in place of the numberless and indefeasible chartered
freedoms, has set up that single, unconscionable freedom—Free Trade. In
one word, for exploitation, veiled by religious and political
illusions, naked, shameless, direct, brutal exploitation.

The bourgeoisie has stripped of its halo every occupation hitherto
honoured and looked up to with reverent awe. It has converted the
physician, the lawyer, the priest, the poet, the man of science, into
its paid wage labourers.

The bourgeoisie has torn away from the family its sentimental veil, and
has reduced the family relation to a mere money relation.

The bourgeoisie has disclosed how it came to pass that the brutal
display of vigour in the Middle Ages, which Reactionists so much
admire, found its fitting complement in the most slothful indolence. It
has been the first to show what man’s activity can bring about. It has
accomplished wonders far surpassing Egyptian pyramids, Roman aqueducts,
and Gothic cathedrals; it has conducted expeditions that put in the
shade all former Exoduses of nations and crusades.

The bourgeoisie cannot exist without constantly revolutionising the
instruments of production, and thereby the relations of production, and
with them the whole relations of society. Conservation of the old modes
of production in unaltered form, was, on the contrary, the first
condition of existence for all earlier industrial classes. Constant
revolutionising of production, uninterrupted disturbance of all social
conditions, everlasting uncertainty and agitation distinguish the
bourgeois epoch from all earlier ones. All fixed, fast-frozen
relations, with their train of ancient and venerable prejudices and
opinions, are swept away, all new-formed ones become antiquated before
they can ossify. All that is solid melts into air, all that is holy is
profaned, and man is at last compelled to face with sober senses, his
real conditions of life, and his relations with his kind.

The need of a constantly expanding market for its products chases the
bourgeoisie over the whole surface of the globe. It must nestle
everywhere, settle everywhere, establish connexions everywhere.

The bourgeoisie has through its exploitation of the world-market given
a cosmopolitan character to production and consumption in every
country. To the great chagrin of Reactionists, it has drawn from under
the feet of industry the national ground on which it stood. All
old-established national industries have been destroyed or are daily
being destroyed. They are dislodged by new industries, whose
introduction becomes a life and death question for all civilised
nations, by industries that no longer work up indigenous raw material,
but raw material drawn from the remotest zones; industries whose
products are consumed, not only at home, but in every quarter of the
globe. In place of the old wants...

[Content truncated for display]
</div>
