---
layout: default
title: "wind in willows"
parent: PG Books
has_children: false
---


<style>
.image-gallery {
  display: flex;
  flex-wrap: wrap;
  justify-content: space-between;
  margin-bottom: 20px;
}

.image-row {
  display: flex;
  justify-content: flex-start;
  width: 100%;
  margin-bottom: 20px;
}

.image-item {
  width: 23%;
  margin-right: 2%;
  text-align: center;
}

.image-item:last-child {
  margin-right: 0;
}

.image-item img {
  width: 100%;
  height: auto;
  object-fit: cover;
  border-radius: 5px;
  box-shadow: 0 2px 4px rgba(0,0,0,0.1);
}

.image-item p {
  margin-top: 5px;
  font-size: 0.9em;
  color: #555;
}

.video-container {
  margin: 20px 0;
}

.book-content {
  max-height: 500px;
  overflow-y: auto;
  padding: 15px;
  border: 1px solid #ddd;
  border-radius: 5px;
  background-color: #f9f9f9;
  font-family: monospace;
  white-space: pre-wrap;
  margin-top: 20px;
}
</style>


# wind in willows


## Book Content

<div class="book-content">
﻿The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Wind in the Willows
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The Wind in the Willows

Author: Kenneth Grahame

Release date: July 1, 1995 [eBook #289]
                Most recently updated: November 30, 2024

Language: English

Credits: Mike Lough and David Widger


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE WIND IN THE WILLOWS ***

[Illustration]




The Wind in the Willows

by Kenneth Grahame

Author Of “The Golden Age,” “Dream Days,” Etc.


Contents

 CHAPTER I. THE RIVER BANK
 CHAPTER II. THE OPEN ROAD
 CHAPTER III. THE WILD WOOD
 CHAPTER IV. MR. BADGER
 CHAPTER V. DULCE DOMUM
 CHAPTER VI. MR. TOAD
 CHAPTER VII. THE PIPER AT THE GATES OF DAWN
 CHAPTER VIII. TOAD’S ADVENTURES
 CHAPTER IX. WAYFARERS ALL
 CHAPTER X. THE FURTHER ADVENTURES OF TOAD
 CHAPTER XI. “LIKE SUMMER TEMPESTS CAME HIS TEARS”
 CHAPTER XII. THE RETURN OF ULYSSES




I.
THE RIVER BANK


The Mole had been working very hard all the morning, spring-cleaning
his little home. First with brooms, then with dusters; then on ladders
and steps and chairs, with a brush and a pail of whitewash; till he had
dust in his throat and eyes, and splashes of whitewash all over his
black fur, and an aching back and weary arms. Spring was moving in the
air above and in the earth below and around him, penetrating even his
dark and lowly little house with its spirit of divine discontent and
longing. It was small wonder, then, that he suddenly flung down his
brush on the floor, said “Bother!” and “O blow!” and also “Hang
spring-cleaning!” and bolted out of the house without even waiting to
put on his coat. Something up above was calling him imperiously, and he
made for the steep little tunnel which answered in his case to the
gravelled carriage-drive owned by animals whose residences are nearer
to the sun and air. So he scraped and scratched and scrabbled and
scrooged and then he scrooged again and scrabbled and scratched and
scraped, working busily with his little paws and muttering to himself,
“Up we go! Up we go!” till at last, pop! his snout came out into the
sunlight, and he found himself rolling in the warm grass of a great
meadow.

“This is fine!” he said to himself. “This is better than whitewashing!”
The sunshine struck hot on his fur, soft breezes caressed his heated
brow, and after the seclusion of the cellarage he had lived in so long
the carol of happy birds fell on his dulled hearing almost like a
shout. Jumping off all his four legs at once, in the joy of living and
the delight of spring without its cleaning, he pursued his way across
the meadow till he reached the hedge on the further side.

“Hold up!” said an elderly rabbit at the gap. “Sixpence for the
privilege of passing by the private road!” He was bowled over in an
instant by the impatient and contemptuous Mole, who trotted along the
side of the hedge chaffing the other rabbits as they peeped hurriedly
from their holes to see what the row was about. “Onion-sauce!
Onion-sauce!” he remarked jeeringly, and was gone before they could
think of a thoroughly satisfactory reply. Then they all started
grumbling at each other. “How _stupid_ you are! Why didn’t you tell
him——” “Well, why didn’t _you_ say——” “You might have reminded him——”
and so on, in the usual way; but, of course, it was then much too late,
as is always the case.

It all seemed too good to be true. Hither and thither through the
meadows he rambled busily, along the hedgerows, across the copses,
finding everywhere birds building, flowers budding, leaves
thrusting—everything happy, and progressive, and occupied. And instead
of having an uneasy conscience pricking him and whispering “whitewash!”
he somehow could only feel how jolly it was to be the only idle dog
among all these busy citizens. After all, the best part of a holiday is
perhaps not so much to be resting yourself, as to see all the other
fellows busy working.

He thought his happiness was complete when, as he meandered aimlessly
along, suddenly he stood by the edge of a full-fed river. Never in his
life had he seen a river before—this sleek, sinuous, full-bodied
animal, chasing and chuckling, gripping things with a gurgle and
leaving them with a laugh, to fling itself on fresh playmates that
shook themselves free, and were caught and held again. All was a-shake
and a-shiver—glints and gleams and sparkles, rustle and swirl, chatter
and bubble. The Mole was bewitched, entranced, fascinated. By the side
of the river he trotted as one trots, when very small, by the side of a
man who holds one spell-bound by exciting stories; and when tired at
last, he sat on the bank, while the river still chattered on to him, a
babbling procession of the best stories in the world, sent from the
heart of the earth to be told at last to the insatiable sea.

As he sat on the grass and looked across the river, a dark hole in the
bank opposite, just above the water’s edge, caught his eye, and
dreamily he fell to considering what a nice snug dwelling-place it
would make for an animal with few wants and fond of a bijou riverside
residence, above flood level and remote from noise and dust. As he
gazed, something bright and small seemed to twinkle down in the heart
of it, vanished, then twinkled once more like a tiny star. But it could
hardly be a star in such an unlikely situation; and it was too
glittering and small for a glow-worm. Then, as he looked, it winked at
him, and so declared itself to be an eye; and a small face began
gradually to grow up round it, like a frame round a picture.

A brown little face, with whiskers.

A grave round face, with the same twinkle in its eye that had first
attracted his notice.

Small neat ears and thick silky hair.

It was the Water Rat!

Then the two animals stood and regarded each other cautiously.

“Hullo, Mole!” said the Water Rat.

“Hullo, Rat!” said the Mole.

“Would you like to come over?” enquired the Rat presently.

“Oh, its all very well to _talk_,” said the Mole, rather pettishly, he
being new to a river and riverside life and its ways.

The Rat said nothing, but stooped and unfastened a rope and hauled on
it; then lightly stepped into a little boat which the Mole had not
observed. It was painted blue outside and white within, and was just
the size for two animals; and the Mole’s whole heart went out to it at
once, even though he did not yet fully understand its uses.

The Rat sculled smartly across and made fast. Then he held up his
forepaw as the Mole stepped gingerly down. “Lean on that!” he said.
“Now then, step lively!” and the Mole to his surprise and rapture found
himself actually seated in the stern of a real boat.

“This has been a wonderful day!” said he, as the Rat shoved off and
took to the sculls again. “Do you know, I’ve never been in a boat
before in all my life.”

“What?” cried the Rat, open-mouthed: “Never been in a—you never—well
I—what have you been doing, then?”

“Is it so nice as all that?” asked the Mole shyly, though he was quite
prepared to believe it as he leant back in his seat and surveyed the
cushions, the oars, the rowlocks, and all the fascinating fittings, and
felt the boat sway lightly under him.

“Nice? It’s the _only_ thing,” said the Water Rat solemnly, as he leant
forward for his stroke. “Believe me, my young friend, there is
_nothing_—absolute nothing—half so much worth doing as simply messing
about in boats. Simply messing,” he went on dreamily:
“messing—about—in—boats; messing——”

“Look ahead, Rat!” cried the Mole suddenly.

It was too late. The boat struck the bank full tilt. The dreamer, the
joyous oarsman, lay on his back at the bottom of the boat, his heels in
the air.

“—about in boats—or _with_ boats,” the Rat went on composedly, picking
himself up with a pleasant laugh. “In or out of ’em, it doesn’t matter.
Nothing seems really to matter, that’s the charm of it. Whether you get
away, or whether you don’t; whether you arrive at your destination or
whether you reach somewhere else, or whether you never get anywhere at
all, you’re always busy, and you never do anything in particular; and
when you’ve done it there’s always something else to do, and you can do
it if you like, but you’d much better not. Look here! If you’ve really
nothing else on hand this morning, supposing we drop down the river
together, and have a long day of it?”

The Mole waggled his toes from sheer happiness, spread his chest with a
sigh of full contentment, and leaned back blissfully into the soft
cushions. “_What_ a day I’m having!” he said. “Let us start at once!”

“Hold hard a minute, then!” said the Rat. He looped the painter through
a ring in his landing-stage, climbed up into his hole above, and after
a short interval reappeared staggering under a fat, wicker
luncheon-basket.

“Shove that under your feet,” he observed to the Mole, as he passed it
down into the boat. Then he untied the painter and took the sculls
again.

“What’s inside it?” asked the Mole, wriggling with curiosity.

“There’s cold chicken inside it,” replied the Rat briefly; “
coldtonguecoldhamcoldbeefpickledgherkinssaladfrenchrollscresssandwiches
pottedme atgingerbeerlemonadesodawater——”

“O stop, stop,” cried the Mole in ecstacies: “This is too much!”

“Do you really think so?” enquired the Rat seriously. “It’s only what I
always take on these little excursions; and the other animals are
always telling me that I’m a mean beast and cut it _very_ fine!”

The Mole never heard a word he was saying. Absorbed in the new life he
was entering upon, intoxicated with the sparkle, the ripple, the scents
and the sounds and the sunlight...

[Content truncated for display]
</div>
