---
layout: default
title: the challenge of finding true friends
parent: TheCottageFairy
has_children: false
nav_order: 127
---

## [the challenge of finding true friends](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I4wKjawyt5g)

[Music] Thank you [Music]

Surely something else too this afternoon she had noticed that one of the floor tiles in the kitchen was sticking up. Tile edges had always protruded here and there. [Music]

It is the beautiful overcast autumn day, the perfect morning to stay in bed for an extra 15 minutes and sip some peppermint tea. [Music] [Music] Thank you [Music] [Music]

Slowly, very often, but today was different and I enjoyed every moment of it. And even got to listen to an audiobook. I have to admit, the weather has reflected my mood and I'm feeling peaceful, a little tired, and slower than usual. Pretty typical for the colder months, I think. So, I decided to work on a much-anticipated Autumn recipe. I also plan to spend the rest of the day working on some new art projects as I've relocated my artist studio and I'm attempting to reopen my gift shop today. Hopefully, all goes as planned. [Music] Thank you [Music] [Music]

I thought I'd share something in this video, in hopes to spark a conversation. And that is one about seeking quality friendships. Though I'm quite connected in my community and enjoy quiet socializing, I only really have a couple close friends. This has always suited me, though everyone is different. Over the years of navigating human relationships, I felt that some friendships have solid foundations of love and respect, others grow out of less healthy root systems, at least in my experience. I asked what friendship challenges you have faced throughout the years on Instagram, and many of you shared a dislike of relationships that are built upon constant gossip, negativity, bullying, or other practices that bring you down and suck away your energy. It's a good reminder for all of us, especially this Autumn when we find ourselves cozied up at home, to be wary of the words we use around the people we care about. I truly think words have power to shape our perceptions of ourselves in the world. We are what we think and speak, after all. [Music] Thank you [Music]

[Music] Guys, you need to try it, it's so good. If you make poached pears this Autumn, please let me know what your experience was. I think this is the most delicious recipe I've tried in forever. Anyway, I'm sending you so much love and let's go take a walk in the woods. Thank you [Music] [Music]

As I've grown and done my best to listen to my soul and develop a more positive mindset, I admit I have lost friendships. Often, we've grown apart through having less in common and wanting to be very different types of people. This is a natural thing to happen as we change and grow, but it can be hard to accept. As I've gotten older, I've been much less interested in being critical of others, pessimistic, and hard on myself. And I no longer gravitate towards friendships defined by these things. I've started to treat my emotional energy as a sacred force I want to put towards simply enjoying the time I have left and spending it with people who are just kind, I guess. People who inspire and make me feel safe. It's taken a long time to find those friendships, and it has forced me to become comfortable with being on my own sometimes. I've had to be honest with myself and humble, as I have a tendency to stand in my own way, as we all do. I think, happily, I found my belonging. It just took time. [Music] Thank you [Music] [Music]

So, as I wait with anticipation for the leaves to begin falling from the Aspens and Willows, maybe it's time to consider what you've been holding on to that isn't serving you anymore and let it go. Autumn asks us to become thoughtful in that way. It is a mystical season where things long hidden are brought to the light, especially within ourselves. [Music] Thank you [Music] [Music]

I have spent the last couple of hours just hanging up my more autumnal themed watercolors around the house. And I didn't remember how many kind of more autumn-themed art pieces I had made. Decorating for the season can be that simple. It could just be putting up some leaves on the windows, updating my autumn wreath, putting some pine cones here and there for decoration. It has been so lovely this season to choose simplicity overall else, and it has benefited me in many ways. It is interesting as well how when you focus on simplicity, you notice so many more opportunities for decorating than you may have before. For example, there was this free poster at my bookstore inspired by a new book that just came out called "The Hidden World of Gnomes." And so, I thought I just had to save it and bring it home and decorate with it. I thought it was just such a sweet piece of art. Anyway, I hope you all have an absolutely wonderful day and you stay warm if it's cold rain or your ads that you can enjoy the seasons and allow nature to teach you whatever it is that you need to learn. I think there's a lot of things I needed to learn this season, and it has been a so far very thoughtful, very beneficial, and fulfilling time. So, I finished recording and then I realized that I had forgotten something very important. And that was that I have reopened my Etsy Shop. I've had it closed for about a month, and I was working on a lot of new art pieces and some new projects. And I'm happy to say Cottage boxes are back in stock, so many new bookmark designs, and I have kind of revamped the entire store. My Etsy Shop is what has kept this channel going throughout the years, and I really appreciate your support. There is never any obligation, but I just want to let you know that there were new art pieces, new fairy art, autumnal art, there's all sorts of things. Maybe you'll take the time to check it out, but of course, there's never any application. Thank you so much for your support of my work as an artist and making music videos. It means the world, and I'm so grateful I can be here with you today. So, sending you so much love, and I will see you soon. Goodbye. [Music]